---
title: 01.The Vim Way
date: 2024-07-17 08:14:46
order:
---

This series of posts are based on hands-on practices from _Practical Vim, Second Edition_ by Drew Neil.

Edit Text at the Speed of Thought

> I started practising my Vim skills from 2024-07-11.
>
> I completed practising all 123 tips deomonstrated in this book on ???.

## 1. Meet the Dot Command

The dot command lets us repeat the last change. It is the most powerful and versatile command in Vim.

Vim’s documentation simply states that the dot command “repeats the last change” (see `:h .` ).

What is a change? Keep asking yourself this question every once in a while.

A change could act at the level of individual characters, entire lines, or even the whole file.

```md
Line one
Line two
Line three
Line four
```

- `x` deletes the character under the cursor
- `dd` deletes the current line
- `>G` increases the indentation from the current line until the end of the file

## 2. Don't Repeat Yourself

For such a common use case as appending a semicolon at the end of series of lines, Vim provides a dedicated command that combines two steps into one.

### Reduce Extraneous Movement

```js
var foo = 1;
var bar = "a";
var foobar = foo + bar;
```

Practice Problems

1. How to add semicolon at the end?
2. How to delete semicolon at the end?
3. How do I delete the last character in each line using vim?

```md
12345a
123456b
1234567c
12345678d
123456789e
```

Answer: `:53,57s/.$/`

- `i` switch to Insert mode before the cursor
- `I` insert text at the beginning of the line
- `a` appends after the current cursor position
- `A` appends at the end of the current line
- `o` open a new line below the current one
- `O` open a new line above the current one
- `ea` insert at the end of the word
- `<Esc>` exit Insert mode

From the moment we enter Insert Mode (by pressing `i`) until we return to Normal mode (by pressing `<Esc>`), Vim records every keystroke.

```md
This is a test line to play around with the following commands.
```

Two for the Price of One

| 复合命令 | 等效的长命令  | 命令解释                                   |
| -------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `C`      | `c$`          | 删除从光标位置到行尾的文本，并进入插入模式 |
| `s`      | `cl` or `xi`  | 删除当前光标下的字符，并进入插入模式       |
| `S`      | `^C` or `ddi` | 删除整行，并进入插入模式                   |
| `I`      | `^i`          | 将光标移动到行首，并进入插入模式           |
| `A`      | `$a`          | 将光标移动到行尾，并进入插入模式           |
| `o`      | `A<CR>`       | 在当前行的下方插入一个新行，并进入插入模式 |
| `O`      | `ko`          | 在当前行的上方插入一个新行，并进入插入模式 |

## 3. Take One Step Back, Then Three Forward

We can pad a single character with two spaces (one in front, the other behind) by using an idiomatic Vim solution. At first it might look slightly odd, but the solution has the benefit of being repeatable, which allows us to complete the task effortlessly.

```js
var foo = "method(" + argument1 + "," + argument2 + ")";
```

- `f{char}` tells Vim to look ahead for the next occurence of the specified character and then move the cursor directly to it if a match is found
- we could jump to the next occurence by repeating the `f+` command, or
- `;` will repeat the last search that the `f` command performed
- `x` deletes a character in Normal mode
- `s` deletes a character and enters Insert mode

## 4. Act, Repeat, Reverse

| Intent                             | Act                     | Repeat | Reverse |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------ | ------- |
| Make a change                      | `{edit}`                | `.`    | `u`     |
| Scan a line for next character     | `f{char}` or `t{char}`  | `;`    | `,`     |
| Scan a line for previous character | `F{char}` or `T{char}`  | `;`    | `,`     |
| Scan document for next match       | /pattern`<CR>`          | `n`    | `N`     |
| Scan document for previous match   | ?pattern`<CR>`          | `n`    | `N`     |
| Perform substitution               | `:s/target/replacement` | `&`    | `u`     |
| Execute a sequence of changes      | `qx{changes}q`          | `@x`   | `u`     |

Table 1 — Repeatable Actions and How to Reverse Them

- `:s%/target/replacement` change the 1st matched occurance
- `:s%/target/replacement/g` change all occurances without "confirming each substitution"
- `:s%/target/replacement/gc` change all occurances, 1 by 1 "confirming each substutition"

## 5. Find and Replace by Hand

Vim has a `:substitute` command for find-and-replace tasks, but with this alternative technique, we'll change the first occurence by hand and then find and replace every other match one by one. The dot command will save us from labor, but we'll meet another nifty one-key command that makes jumping between matches a snap.

```md
...We're waiting for content before the site can go live...
...If you are content with this, let's go ahead with it...
...We'll launch as soon as we have the content...
```

Suppose that we want to use the word "copy" instead of "content". We can just use the substitute command:

Method 1 (replacement for the entire file)

- `:%s/content/copy/g`

Method 2 (search without typing)

- `*` command executes a search for the word under the cursor
  - the cursor will jump to the next match, and
  - all occurences will be highlighted
- `cw` command deletes to the end of the word and then drops us into Insert mode
- during a search, press the `n` key, our cursor advances to the next occurence

If you don't see any highlighting, try running `:set hlsearch` command.

Method 2 is equivalent to `:s%/target/replacement/gc`

## 6. Meet the Dot Formula

总结 Tip 2 3 5

The Ideal: One Keystoke to Move, One Keystroke to Execute
