---
title: 09.Navigate Between Files with Jumps
date: 2024-10-20 13:12:23
order:
---

## 56. Traverse the Jump List

Vim records our location before and after making a jump and provides a couple of commands for retracing our steps.

jump list `:jumps`

- `<C-o>` back button
- `<C-i>` forward button

- motions move around _within_ a file
- jumps move _between_ files
- some motions are also classified as jumps

Any command that changes the active file for the current window can be described as a jump. In the jump list, Vim records the cursor location before and after running such a command.

- `:edit` command to open a new file
- `[count]G` moving directly to a line number
- The sentence-wise and paragraph-wise motions are jumps

This table summarizes a selection of jumps:

| Command                               | Effect                                         |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `[count]G`                            | Jump to a line number                          |
| /pattern`<CR>`/?pattern`<CR>`/`n`/`N` | Jump to next/previous occurrence of pattern    |
| `%`                                   | Jump to match parenthesis                      |
| `(`/`)`                               | Jump to start of previous/next sentence        |
| `{`/`}`                               | Jump to start of previous/next paragraph       |
| `H`/`M`/`L`                           | Jump to top/middle/bottom of screen            |
| `gf`                                  | Jump to file name under the cursor             |
| `<C-]`                                | Jump to definition of keyword under the cursor |
| `'{mark}`/<code>\`{mark}</code>       | Jump to a mark                                 |

Test the `gf` command with below:

`C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua`

## 57. Traverse the Change List

## 58. Jump to the Filename Under the Cursor

## 59. Snap Between Files Using Global Marks

A global mark is a kind of bookmark that allows us to jump between files. Marks can be especially useful for snapping back to a file after exploring a codebase.

The `m{letter}` command allows us to create a mark at the current cursor position (`:h m`). Lowercase letters create marks that are local to a buffer, whereas uppercase letters create global marks. Having set a mark, we can snap our cursor back to it with the <code>\`{letter}</code> command (<code>:h \`</code>).

### Set a Global Mark Before Goging Code Diving

Global marks can be specifically useful when we need to browse through a set of files and then quickly snap back to where we started.

Remember, you can set up to twenty-six global marks, which is more than you'll ever need. Use them liberally; set a global mark any time you see something that you might want to snap back to later.

Use case

1. Open the keymaps config file in path `C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua`, add a line of comment `-- C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\core\keymaps.lua` to the first line to indicate its path, and then save the file
2. On this newly added first line, run `mK` to leave a global mark
3. From any project folder within Vim, run <code>`K</code> to pull up the keymaps config file

The key message is that once a global mark is set, Vim will remember it, across folders and files, even if you quit and re-enter Vim. Once set, the global mark will always be there until it is overwritten.

### Marks and positions

- `:marks` - list of marks
- `ma` - set current position for mark A
- <code>\`a</code> - jump to position of mark A
- <code>y\`a</code> - yank text to position of mark A
- <code>\`0</code> - go to the position where Vim was previously exited
- <code>\`"</code> - go to the position when last editing this file
- <code>\`.</code> - go to the position of the last change in this file
- <code>\`\`</code> - go to the position before the last jump
- `:ju[mps]` - list of jumps
- `Ctrl` + `i` - go to newer position in jump list
- `Ctrl` + `o` - go to older position in jump list
- `:changes` - list of changes
- `g,` - go to newer position in change list
- `g;` - go to older position in change list
- `Ctrl` + `]` - jump to the tag under cursor

::: tip
To jump to a mark you can either use a backtick (<code>`</code>) or an apostrophe (<code>'</code>). Using an apostrophe jumps to the beginning (first non-blank) of the line holding the mark.
:::
