---
title: 10.Copy-and-Paste
date: 2024-10-26 16:20:47
order: 
---
## 60. Delete, Yank, and Put wth Vim's Unnamed Register

- `xp` "Transpose the next two characters"
- `ddp` "Transpose the order of this line and its successor"
- `yyp` duplicate the current line

Done by the unnamed register, but won't work if the unnamed register gets overwritten by `diw`

## 61. Grok Vim's Register

### Addressing a Register

`"{register}`

- `"ayw` yank the current word into register `a`
- `"bdd` cut the current line into register `b`
- `"ap` paste the word from register `a`
- `"bp` paste the line from register `b`

### The Unnamed Register

`""` see `:h quote_quote`

The `x` and `d{motion}` are usually referred to as "delete" commands. This is a misnomer. It's better to think of them as "cut" commands.

### The Yank Register

`"0` see `:h quote0`

- `""p`
- `"0p`
- `p`

`:reg` inspect the contents of unnamed and yank registers

### The Named Registers

`"a`-`"z` see `:h quote_alpha`

- `"ad{motion}`
- `"ay{motion}`
- `"ap`

- lowercase letter, it overwrites the specified register
- uppercase letter, it appends to the specified register

### The Black Hole Register

`"_` see `:h quote_`

- `"_d{motion}` deletes without saving a copy

### The System Clipboard and Selection Registers

`"+` system clipboard, see `:h quote+`
`"*` primary, see `:h quotestar`

In Windows and Mac OS X, there is no primary clipboard, so we can use the `"+` and `"*` registers interchangeably: they both represent the system clipboard.

### The Expression Register

`"=` see `:h quote=`

Read and test the examples in the book.

### More Registers

We can set the contents of the named, unnamed, and yank registers explicitly using the delete and yank commands.

Read-only registers (`:h quote.`)

- `"%` Name of the current file
- `"#` Name of the alternate file
- `".` Last inserted text
- `":` Last Ex command
- `"/` Last search pattern

## 62. Replacee a Visual Selection with a Register
