---
title: nvim-tree
date: 2024-11-14 13:49:08
permalink: /pages/a7ed2b/
categories: 
  - editor
tags: 
  - editor
  - Neovim
---

## What is nvim-tree

A file explorer tree for Neovim written in Lua.

- `g?` key mappings
- `NvimTreeFindFile`

## Config

When your Neovim config is a copy from someone else, that means for the most part you simply don't actually know what each line of code really does. So from time to time, you've got to revist your configurations.

Currently, I have two problems:

1. Whenever I tried to run `:Explore` in the command-line, I get the following message: `E492: Not an editor command: Explore`

   This is because `netrw` has been disabled in the plugin config file `C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\plugins\nvim-tree.lua`.

   So just stop using commands, such as `:Explore`, as offered by `netrw` from now on. Use those offered by `nvim-tree` instead.

2. `<leader>ef` appears to do the same trick as `<leader>ee`, toggling the working directoy of your every first opened file, regardless you've jumped to a file in a different path and loaded it in the current buffer.

   To update root of the current buffer, you need to invoke with a bang in the keymap of `<leader>ef`, and make it `:NvimTreeFindFile!`. All key mappings for `nvim-tree` are configured in `C:\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\plugins\nvim-tree.lua`:

   ```lua

           keymap.set("n", "<leader>ef", "<cmd>NvimTreeFindFile!<CR>", { desc = "Toggle file explorer on current file" }) -- toggle file explorer on current file
   ```

Now, with this setting, it's always a good idea to plant various file paths in your project files. With Vim in Normal mode, run command `gf` you can easily jump to that specific file anytime you want to, and run `<leader>ef` you can open the entire working directory of that new jump to file. This is rather convenient, as it gives you the power to jump to a file and open its directory in a blinking instant.

Problem 3

Under certain circumstances, the `gf` inside Neovim does not work as expected and triggers error message `E447: Can't find file "\Users\Alowr\AppData\Local\nvim\lua\alowree\plugins\nvim-tree.lua" in path`. This has something to do with the escape of `\`.

Rewrite `\` inside path with `/`: `C:/Users/Alowr/AppData/Local/nvim/lua/alowree/plugins/nvim-tree.lua`, and `gf` works just fine.
Rewrite `\` inside path with `\\`: `C:\\Users\\Alowr\\AppData\\Local\\nvim\\lua\\alowree\\plugins\\nvim-tree.lua`, and `gf` works just fine.

By comparison, the `gf` inside Vim works on all three representations.

See `:h gf` and `:h path`.
