---
title: 06.Manage Multiple Files
date: 2024-08-16 15:55:28
permalink: /pages/d1c2a2/
categories: 
  - editor
tags: 
  - editor
  - Vim
---

## Tip 37. Track Open Files with the Buffer List

_We can load multiple files during an editing session. Vim lets us manage them using the buffer list._

### Understand the Distinction Between Files and Buffers

Most Vim commands operate on buffers, but a few operate on files, including the `:write`, `:update` and `:saveas` commands.

### Meet the Buffer List

- `:ls`, `:files`, `:buffers`

See `:h :b`

The % symbol indicates which of the buffers is visible in the current window, while the # symbol represents the alternate file. We can quickly toggle between the current and alternate files by pressing `<C-^>`.

::: Tim Note

When you have multiple buffers open, both `<C-6>` and `<C-^>` toggle the current/previous files.

:::

### Use the Buffer List

- `:bnext`, `:bprevious`
- `:bfirst`, `:blast`

### Deleting Buffers

- `:bdelete N1 N2 N3`
- `:N,M bdelete`

## Tip 38. Group Buffers into a Collection with the Argument List

_The argument list is easily managed and can be useful for grouping together a collection of files for easy navigation. We can run an Ex command on each item in the argument list using the `:argdo` command._

## Tip 39. Manage Hidden Files

_When a buffer has been modified, Vim gives it special treatment to ensure that we don’t accidentally quit the editor without saving our changes. Find out how to hide a modified buffer and how to handle hidden buffers when quitting Vim._

## Tip 40. Divide Your Workspace into Split Windows.

_Vim allows us to view multiple buffers side by side by dividing our workspace into split windows._

In Vim’s terminology, a window is a viewport onto a buffer (`:h window`).

### Creating Split Windows

| Command            | Effect                                                                              |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<C-w>s`           | Split the current window horizontally, reusing the current buffer in the new window |
| `<C-w>v`           | Split the current window vertically, reusing the current buffer in the new window   |
| `:sp[lit] {file}`  | Split the current window horizontally, loading `{file}` into the new window         |
| `:vsp[lit] {file}` | Split the current window vertically, loading `{file}` into the new window           |

### Changing the Focus Between Windows

### Closing Windows

| Ex Command | Normal Command | Effect                                          |
| ---------- | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `:clo[se]` | `<C-w>c`       | Close the active window                         |
| `:on[ly]`  | `<C-w>o`       | Keep only the active window, closing all others |

### Resizing and Rearranging Windows

## Tip 41. Organize Your Window Layouts with Tab Pages

_Vim’s tabbed interface is different from that of many other text editors. We can use tab pages to organize split windows into a collection of workspaces._

In Vim, a tab page is a container that can hold a collection of windows (`:h tabpage`).

- workspace
  - tab 1
    - window a
    - window b
  - tab 2:
    - window 1
    - window 2
  - tab 3
    - window x
    - window y

## How to Use Tabs

Vim’s tab pages can be used to partition work into different workspaces. They have more in common with the virtual desktops in Linux than they do with the tabbed interface of most other text editors.

Suppose that we’re at work on a project, with our workspace divided into a few split windows. Out of the blue, something urgent comes up and we have to switch contexts. Rather than opening new files in our current tab page, which would mess up our carefully assembled workspace, we can create a new tab page and do the work there. When we’re ready to resume our previous work, we just have to switch back to the original tab page where all of our windows will have been preserved as we left them.

The `:lcd {path}` command lets us set the working directory locally for the current window. If we create a new tab page and then use the `:lcd` command to switch to another directory, we can then comfortably scope each tab page to a different project. Note that `:lcd` applies locally to the current window, not to the current tab page. If we have a tab page containing two or more split windows, we could set the local working directory for all of them by running `:windo lcd {path}`.

- `:h :lcd`
- `:h :windo`

## Opening and Closing Tabs

## Switching Between Tabs

## Rearranging Tabs
