---
title: 03.Bluetooth Alarm
date: 2024-06-14 15:41:22
order: 
---
> Hi. I am trying to use my Sound Rise II as an alarm clock with Bluetooth. What I am having trouble with is that I cannot have the alarm work right unless my phone is already playing music, which defeats the purpose.
> I have an Android device, and the app I use to play music is Pi Music Player. Do I need to use a specific music player app with the Sound Rise II to be able to use it as an alarm clock with my phone playing music over Bluetooth as an alarm tone?

Hi Joe,

Thank you for being a Soundfreaq customer and we'd love to hear from you.

If Bluetooth is configured as an alarm, and for it to work properly, there are three things you should check.

1. What brand of phone are you using and does it come with an embedded music application. We recommend that you use these original brand music applications.
   Typically, these out-of-the-box music applications either have an API implemented with the phone's operating system, or have an interface that allows the user to configure "Start playback on Bluetooth device" or "Allow Bluetooth devices to evoke music". Different music applications may have different settings paths and wording. The settings path in a music application will look like 'Mine/Profile >> Settings >> Connections/Music Devices', but will vary.
   In these circumstances, when the alarm goes off, even such a music application is not active on your phone, Sound Rise II is able to send a play command to the phone, launch the music application and play music from the phone.
2. Android device + 3rd party music applications such as Pi Music Player. As there is no API or auto-evoke configuration available, you must ensure that the Pi Music Player is still active and not terminated by the phone's operating system when the alarm goes off. If the application is closed or inactive, the Sound Rise II will not be able to pull it up via Bluetooth and the alarm will switch to the built-in chime.
3. If step#2 has been checked correctly and the Sound Rise II is able to retrieve music from the phone, then check the volume levels on both the phone and the Sound Rise II. If the volume is too low (with weak signals), the Sound Rise II Bluetooth will detect this as Bluetooth unavailable and will also automatically switch to the default chime. You will therefore need to adjust the volume to a moderate level for the Bluetooth alarm to work properly.

Please try these three steps one at a time to see if you can get the Bluetooth alarm to work properly. Feel free to contact us again if you need further assistance from the Soundfreaq team.

Hi Lisa,

For the Bluetooth alarm to work properly, the Sound Rise II needs to retrieve music from the paired phone for playback. In some use cases, the music applications may have either been manually disabled or closed by the phone's operating system. When the preset time arrives, the music application cannot be automatically launched (either because there is no API, so no command from the phone to the music application, or because the music application does not have such a configuration enabled) to play music, so no Bluetooth alarm.

In other words, if the Bluetooth alarm is configured and the alarm goes off, it is virtually equivalent to the following events happening: the Sound Rise II turns on automatically, searches for the previously paired device (the user's mobile phone), pairs with it and then plays music from the last music application that was active.

Very often the music application on the paired phone is not available for the Sound Rise II to retrieve music from. So you see, the key element is that the phone can either restart the music application or find an active music application when the Bluetooth pull command is received. Otherwise the pull command will fail and stop there, resulting in a failed Bluetooth alarm.

Please take a look at the answer I left for Joe and let's rewrite this explanation and suggested solution in an easy to understand manner for future customer enquiries. Thanks for your attention and help, Lisa. Have a great weekend.
