---
title: 05.Sound Rise II — FAQ
date: 2024-07-08 09:11:20
permalink: /pages/52d6f4/
categories: 
  - Soundfreaq
tags: 
  - Soundfreaq
  - Sound Rise II
---

::: details How to set the alarm on Sound Rise II?

There are two steps to setting the alarm on your Sound Rise II: setting the alarm time and setting the alarm mode.

**Step One: To set the alarm time**

1. Press the `SET` button and the alarm time will start flashing.
2. Use the `TUNE/SET` knob to adjust the alarm time and press `ENTER` to confirm.

Usually, this step is intuitive and users can do it without reading the manual.

**Step Two: To set the alarm mode**

1. Press and hold the `MODE` button to enter the alarm mode setting, and the source icons on the left will start flashing.
2. Use the `TUNE/SET` knob to select the alarm source: Bluetooth, FM Radio, or the built-in chime. Note that AUX-IN and Nature Sound cannot be used as an alarm sound.
3. Select the alarm day:  
   a. `d1` means Monday  
   b. `d2` means Tuesday  
   c. ...  
   d. `d7` means Sunday  
   e. `7` means all seven days of the week  
   f. `5` means every five working days  
   g. `2` means the two weekend days
4. Set the maximum alarm volume: By default, the maximum alarm volume is set to level 15. This means that when the alarm goes off, the alarm volume will gradually increase from level 0 to level 15. In early production batches, the maximum alarm volume can be set between [10,30], but cannot be set below 10. This is to ensure that users don't potentially miss low volume alarms. Starting with new production batches from 2025, the maximum alarm volume can be set between [1,30], which gives the user more flexibility in setting the maximum volume, but be reminded to test it before putting it into real use and not to miss any alarms due to low volume.

If you would like to see a video of how to set the alarms on your Sound Rise II, here is a YouTube video made by Jack Picks:

https://youtu.be/3o7qBoRQqsk?si=nArOE4rZnJjKOqYI
:::

::: details Do both the Sound Rise and Sound Rise II have dual alarms?

- Sound Rise SFQ-08 has dual alarms with weekday/weekend settings.
- Sound Rise II SFQ-16 only has a single alarm with weekday/weekend settings.

Multiple reviewers say they prefer the older version for its dual alarm functionality.

:::

::: details Do both the Sound Rise and Sound Rise II have a gradually increasing volume, and how long does it increases for?

Both SKUs support progressive volume on alarm. The volume has a level of [0,30]. The user can set a maximum volume for the alarm in the range of [10,30], both inclusive. The default setting for the maximum alarm volume is 15, but the user can select any volume within the range [10,30].
As the Sound Rise II has a PROGRESSIVE WAKE-UP VOLUME design, this means that when the alarm goes off, the volume will start from 0 and gradually increase to the maximum volume set by the user within 1 minute.

Below are some examples with different maximum alarm volume settings for levels 10/20/30:

- 10: Volume gradually increases from 0 to 10 over 60 seconds
- 20: Volume gradually increases from 0 to 20 over 60 seconds
- 30: volume gradually increases from 0 to 30 over 60 seconds

It's true, however, that for existing production batches, the user cannot set this maximum volume below 10, as it would be inaudible to some users in deep sleep. Again, this is a deliberate design choice that some users don't seem to like. We have decided to remove this locking mechanism from future builds starting with 2024-07-01.

:::

::: details How long will the alarm go off if I don’t turn it off?

The alarm will go on for 60 minutes if without any human intervention.

:::

::: details Can the alarm be set on Bluetooth or aux input on both models?

- Wake up alarm sound for Sound Rise, SFQ-08: Bluetooth, FM radio, Line in or built-in chime.
- Wake up alarm sound for Sound Rise II, SFQ-16: Bluetooth, FM radio, or built-in chime, but Line-in not available.

:::

::: details Also I’m in Canada and it looks like I can’t purchase from your website. I will not use Amazon. Do I have an alternative?

- If the shopper purchases from our website [soundfreaq.com](https://soundfreaq.com/), we are currently unable to ship to Canada. You will have to consider other options such as forwarding service.
- If the shopper purchases from [Amazon.ca](https://amazon.ca/), there is an option for "Remote Fulfillment with FBA", which means that Amazon can ship from its fulfilment centers in the USA to Canada.

:::
