---
title: Node
date: 2024-07-02 11:51:28
permalink: /pages/8024a0/
categories: 
  - tool
tags: 
  - tool
  - devtools
---

Node.js (or Node) is an open source JavaScript server environment built on Chrome’s V8 JavaScript run-time engine. Node allows developers to code and run JavaScript applications locally or in a hosted server, outside a browser.

## NPM

The Node Package Manager (NPM) is the default package manager for Node. It will be installed together with Node.js by default. It lets developers download and install other remote Node packages with ease. Vue and other frontend frameworks are examples of helpful Node packages.

## Yarn

## pnpm

pnpm is a package manager for JavaScript that aims to be faster and more efficient than traditional package managers like npm and Yarn. Here are some key features of pnpm:

- Speed: pnpm is up to 2x faster than npm and Yarn.
- Disk Space Efficiency: It uses a content-addressable filesystem to store files, which means it avoids duplicating files across different projects. This can save significant disk space.
- Monorepo Support: pnpm has built-in support for managing multiple packages within a single repository.
- Strictness: It creates a non-flat `node_modules` directory by default, ensuring that packages can only access their specified dependencies.
- Deterministic: It uses a lockfile called `pnpm-lock.yaml` to ensure consistent installations across different environments.

## What is .pnpm-store

The `.pnpm-store` directory is used by pnpm, a package manager for JavaScript, to store packages and their dependencies. When you install packages using pnpm, they are stored in this directory to avoid redundancy and save disk space.

Here are some key commands related to the pnpm store:

- `pnpm store status`: Checks for modified packages in the store.
- `pnpm store add`: Adds new packages to the store directly.
- `pnpm store prune`: Removes unreferenced packages from the store.
- `pnpm store path`: Returns the path to the active store directory.

## Where is .pnpm-sotre

Possible locaiton:

- `~/.pnpm-store`: If project is on the same partition as user home.
- `$partition_root/.pnpm-store`: If project is on different partition as user home.

## Why not just use ~/.pnpm-store

- On linux/mac, pnpm use hard link to reuse file.
- And hard link, can be created only on the same partition.
